What's new in accessibility at Google?
Hi everyone, it's Laura Allen again, Head of
Strategy and Programs for Accessibility and Disability Inclusion
here at Google.
Welcome back to another episode of What's New
in Google Accessibility, a series where we share
new ways that we're making our products and
features more accessible for everyone.
In this episode, we'll talk about accessibility updates
coming to products like Chrome OS, Android, Workspace,
and more.
So let's jump into it, starting with text
-to-speech in Chrome OS.
Earlier this year, we added new, more natural
-sounding text-to-speech voices to Chrome OS,
so people now have a variety of different
voices and languages to choose from.
Text-to-speech allows users to hear text
on their screen read aloud.
This functionality can be helpful for individuals who
have visual impairments, like me, or those who
prefer to listen to content rather than read
it.
The new voice options can be used with
ChromeVox, Chromebook's built-in screen reader, as well
as select-to-speak, which allows for desired
portions of pages to be read aloud.
In Android news, we have a few exciting
updates.
First, we created a video tutorial series that
offers tips for how to leverage some of
our accessibility features and personalize your Android device
based on your disability.
For example, here's a clip from our video
How to Navigate Your Phone Using Facial Gestures.
We take a look at Camera Switches and
Project Activate, two features that can help people
use their phones through eye movements and facial
gestures.
Also in Android news, we've made some major
updates to Lookout, our app that uses your
phone's camera to read text, find objects, and
more.
This spring, we launched selfie and capture buttons
for Images Mode, which lets users take a
photo with Lookout and hear AI-generated descriptions
of whatever they've photographed.
Like in this example, we've taken a landscape
photo, and Lookout will describe the hills, river,
and hot air balloon in the sky.
In this picture, we can see the hills
and there is a river.
We can see a balloon in the air,
and in the background, we can see the
sky with clouds.
In May, we added Find Mode to Lookout's
set of features, which lets users locate specific
objects by selecting them from a drop-down
list.
We also made improvements to the quality of
Lookout's optical character recognition, which means that the
app can more easily identify text and handwritten
words while it's in Text or Images Mode.
Dear Gabriel, thanks so much for your thoughtful
gift.
It was great seeing you last week.
Hope we can do it again soon.
ZoXo, Aiden.
And we introduced Happiness Tracking Surveys to Lookout
so users can easily share their feedback directly
in the app.
We definitely encourage you to share your thoughts.
Workspace is also an area where we've been
rolling out lots of accessibility features, like in
Google Meet.
Up until recently, one of the common ways
people asked a question in Meet was by
clicking on the hand-raise icon or typing
a keyboard shortcut.
Now, there's a feature in Settings that lets
you raise your physical hand when you want
to speak.
Google Meet will recognize it with gesture detection
and notify all meeting participants.
We also updated our layout options in Google
Meet so users can customize what they see
on their screens.
This option can be great for people who
want to reduce screen clutter and see only
participants with their video feeds shown.
For Google Drive, we're excited to announce that
Drive's web application now supports First Letters Navigation,
a method for quickly finding files and folders.
First Letters Navigation is useful for anyone who
depends on or prefers to use a keyboard,
including screen reader users.
If a user wants to locate a document
they've titled Leadership and Organization, for example, instead
of navigating with arrow keys, they would type
the first letter of the file, in this
case, L, and Drive would jump to the
first item that begins with that letter.
Also, in Drive on web, users can now
update their setting to dark mode, which creates
a darker background with light text.
For some people, this can make visuals clearer
while reducing eyestrain.
In Google Calendar, we're replacing the Appointment Slots
feature with a more accessible and improved Appointments
Schedule option.
With Appointments Schedules, you can create and share
booking pages so people can book time with
you, and you can view booked appointments alongside
your schedule in Google Calendar.
And lastly, since we retired our Gmail HTML
view for desktop and mobile web, we've released
a guide so that screen reader users can
successfully make the switch from HTML to standard
view.
Definitely check it out if you haven't already.
In Google Maps news, we're really excited to
have released Detailed Voice Guidance Worldwide.
Detailed Voice Guidance originally rolled out in 2019,
giving people the ability to receive more guidance
and verbal announcements for walking trips.
Here's a clip of Wakana using the feature
as she navigates the streets of Tokyo.
Detailed Voice Guidance confirms if someone is on
the correct routes, the distance until their next
turn, or if they're approaching a busy intersection.
This feature has been a game-changer for
me personally, especially when on unfamiliar routes.
And it's helpful for anyone who can't easily
look at their phone while walking.
We consider it a virtual curb cut that
benefits many people.
Previously, the feature was only available in English
in the United States and Japanese in Japan.
Now, users anywhere in the world can use
Detailed Voice Guidance in all languages that Maps
supports.
Thanks for tuning in to another episode of
What's New in Google Accessibility.
We hope you've enjoyed learning about some of
our recent efforts to improve our accessibility products
and features.
Be sure to check out our YouTube video
notes, where we've linked to more details about
many of these updates.
If you want to learn more, sign up
for our accessibility newsletter at g.co slash
a11y slash news, or by clicking the link
in the description of this video.
Bye for now!